in this video I'd like to talk about the
Gaussian distribution which is also
called the normal distribution in case
you're already intimately familiar with
the Gaussian distribution
there's probably okay to skip this video
but if you're not sure or if it's been a
while since you've worked with the
Gaussian distribution of the normal
distribution then please do watch this
video all the way to the end and in the
video after this we'll start applying
the Gaussian distribution to developing
an anomaly detection algorithm let's say
X is a real valued random variable so X
is a real number if the probability
distribution of X is Gaussian it with
mean mu and variance Sigma squared then
we'll write this as X the random
variable tell there that's this little
toe there at this rate this is
distributed as identity know the
Gaussian distribution with sometimes
going to write script n parentheses mu
comma Sigma square so this script n
stands for normal since Gaussian and
normal distribution they mean the same
pages of synonyms and a Gaussian
distribution is parameterised by two
parameters by a mean parameter which we
denote mu and a variance parameter which
we denote by a Sigma squared if we plot
the Gaussian distribution or Gaussian
probability density look like the
bell-shaped curve which you may have
seen before and so this bell-shaped
curve is parametrized by those
differences in mu and Sigma and the
location or the center of this
bell-shaped curve is the mean mu and the
width of this bell-shaped curve of
roughly that is the this parameter Sigma
is also called one standard
creation and so this specifies the
probability of X taking on different
values so X taking on values you know in
the middle here is pretty high since the
Gaussian density here is pretty high
whereas X taking on values further and
further away will be diminishing in
probability finally just for
completeness let me write out the
formula for the Gaussian distribution so
they're probably effects and I you
should all sometimes write this instead
of P of X I'm gonna write this as P of X
semicolon new comma Sigma squared and so
this knows that it probably affects it
is parameterize by the two parameters mu
and Sigma squared and the formula for
the Gaussian density is this 1 over root
2 Pi Sigma e to the negative X minus mu
squared over 2 Sigma squared so there's
no need to memorize this formula you
know this is just the formula for the
bell-shaped curve over here on the left
if there's no need to memorize it and if
you ever need to use this you can always
look this up and so that figure on the
left that is what you get if you take a
fixed value of mu and take a fixed value
of Sigma and you plot P of X so this
curve here this is really P of x plotted
as a function of X you know for a fixed
value of Nu and of Sigma Square and by
the way sometimes it's easier to think
in terms of Sigma squared that's called
the variance and sometimes is easier to
think in terms of Sigma so Sigma is
called the standard deviation and it so
that specifies the width of this
Gaussian probability density whereas the
square of Sigma of Sigma squared is
called the variance let's look at some
examples of what the Gaussian
distribution looks like if mu equals 0
Sigma equals 1 then we have a Gaussian
distribution that's centered around 0
because as mu and the width of this
Gaussian
that's one standard deviation is Sigma
over there let's look at some examples
of gaussians if mu is equal to zero
signals 1 then that corresponds to a
Gaussian distribution that is centered
at 0 since mu is 0 and the width of this
Gaussian is depend was controlled by
Sigma by that variance parameter signal
here's another example let's say mu is
equal to 0 and Sigma is equal to 1/2 so
the standard deviation is 1/2 and the
variance Sigma squared would therefore
be the square of 0.5 would be 0.25 and
in that case the Gaussian distribution
the Gaussian program density looks like
this is also centered at 0 but now the
width of this is much smaller because of
the smaller variance the the width of
this Gaussian density is roughly half as
wide but because this is a priority
distribution the area under the curve
that is the shaded area there that area
must integrate to 1 this is a problem
property of probability distributions
and so you know this is a much taller
Gaussian density because this half
that's why with half the standard
deviation but it's twice as tall another
example if Sigma is equal to 2 then you
get a much fatter or much wider Gaussian
density and so here the Sigma parameter
controls that this Gaussian density has
a wider width and once again the area
under the curve that is the shaded area
you know it always integrates to 1
there's a property of probability
distributions and because it's wider
it's also half as tall in order to still
integrate
and finally one last example would be if
we now change the mute params as well
then instead of being sent to the zero
we now have a Gaussian distribution
there Center at 3 because this shifts
over at least a Gaussian distribution
next let's talk about the parameter
estimation problem so what's the
parameter estimation problem let's say
we have a data set of M examples so X 1
through X M and let's say each of these
examples is a real number if you're in
the figure of plotted an example of a
data set so the horizontal axis is the x
axis and you know I have a range of
examples of X and I've just plotted them
on this figure here and the parameter
estimation problem is let's say I
suspect that these examples came from a
Gaussian distribution so let's say I
suspect that each of my examples Exxon
was distributed that's what this total
thing comes that means let's not suspect
that each of these examples was
distributed according to a normal
distribution or Gaussian distribution
with some parameter mu and some
parameter Sigma squared but I don't know
what the values of these parameters are
the problem what parameter estimation is
given my data set I want to try to
figure out I want to estimate what are
the values of MU and Sigma squared so if
you're given a dataset like this you
know it looks like maybe if I estimate
what Gaussian distribution the data came
from maybe that might be roughly the
Gaussian distribution it came from with
mu being the center of the distribution
and Sigma the standard deviation
controlling the width of this Gaussian
distribution it seems like a reasonable
fit to the data because you know it
looks like the data has a very high
probability of being in the central
region alone probably of being further
out even though probably of being
further out and so on so maybe this is a
reasonable estimate of MU and
of cygnus grid that is if it corresponds
to a Gaussian distribution that looks
like this so I'm going to use just write
out the formulas the standard formulas
for estimating the parameters mu and
Sigma script our estimate of the way
we're going to estimate mu is going to
be just the average of my example so mu
is the mean parameter just take my
training set take my M examples and
average them and that me or gives me the
center of this distribution
how about Sigma square well the variance
I'll just write out the standard formula
game I'm going to estimate as sum of 1
through m of X I minus mu squared and so
this mu here is actually the muted that
I compute over here using this formula
and what the variance is the one
interpretation of the variance is that
if you look at this term that's the
squared difference between the value I
thought in my example minus the mean
minus the center minus the mean of
distribution and so the variance I'm
gonna estimate as just the average of
the squared differences between my
examples of minus the mean and as a side
comment only for those of you that are
experts in statistics if you're an
experienced adjust things and if if
you've heard of maximum likelihood
estimation then these parameters these
estimates are actually the maximum
likelihood estimate of the parameters mu
and Sigma squared but if you haven't
heard of that before don't worry about
it all you need to know is that these
are the two standard formulas for how
you estimate for how you try to figure
out what about you and Sigma squared
given the data set finally one last side
comment again only for those of you that
have maybe taken a statistics class
before but if you take this cost before
some of you may have seen the formula
here where you know this is n minus 1
instead of M so so this first term
becomes 1 over n minus 1 so that 1 over
in machine learning people tend to use
this one over n formula but in practice
whether just 1 over M 1 over n minus 1
makes essentially no difference assuming
you know Emma's reasonably logical
reasonably large training set size so
just in case you sold you've seen this
other version before in either version
works just about equally well but
machine learning most people tend to use
1 over m in this formula and the two
versions have slightly different
theoretical properties like these
different mathematical properties for
the practice and it really makes a very
little difference event
so hopefully you now have a good sense
of what the Gaussian distribution looks
like as well as how to estimate the
parameters mu and Sigma squared of the
Gaussian distribution
if you given a training set that is if
you had given a set of data that you
suspect comes from a Gaussian
distribution with unknown parameters in
your Sigma squared in the next video
we'll start to take this and apply to
develop an anomaly detection algorithm